This is Jocco podcast number 23 with Echo Charles and me, Jocco Willink.
Good evening Echo.
Good evening.
Better.
And faster and stronger and smarter and wiser.
Always trying to get a little bit of all those things.
And we try and get wiser.
That's one of those things.
That's wisdom, which technically wisdom comes from experience.
So how do you garner experience?
You can't just make yourself live longer in a shorter period of time.
It doesn't work that way.
So what do we do to garner wisdom?
We look to the past.
You got to know your past.
You got to know history.
And as I tell my son on a pretty regular basis,
history revolves around war.
And in many ways history is war.
And war is a human endeavor.
The worst of human endeavors, but it is a human endeavor nonetheless.
And because it is a human endeavor,
therefore reflects human nature.
And that's why we can learn so much from the history of war.
Not just about war itself.
But about man.
And about human nature.
And the same goes for principles of war.
The principles of war can be applied to life.
Can be applied to business.
Can be applied to relationships.
Can be applied to every human endeavor.
And so with that in mind, that full spectrum of application.
Let's take a look at the oldest book about the principles of war.
Written in 500 BC over 2,500 years ago.
A book whose principles still apply today.
Sunsoes, the art of war.
Sunsoes said,
the art of war is a vital importance to the state.
It is a matter of life and death.
A road either to safety or to ruin.
Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can, on no account, be neglected.
You got to study war.
And like I said, it is really about life in conflict, in friction, in relationships.
And human interaction, you're going to see all that.
When you start looking at the art of war.
And he starts talking about trying to figure out who's going to win in a situation.
When seeking to determine the military conditions, let them be made the basis of a comparison in this wise.
Which of the two generals has most ability?
On which side is discipline most rigorously enforced?
Which army is stronger?
On which side are officers and men most highly trained?
In which army is their greater constancy in both reward and punishment?
That's something you talked about.
Echo Charles and we're talking about kids.
You've talked about how it's important for the punishment to be constant and consistent.
Now yes, now what's interesting here.
And this is something we've talked about before.
And you know what I'm going to say that a lot today.
This is something we've talked about before.
Because when you start talking about military strategy, it runs through the ages.
There's threads that run through the ages.
This is one of them.
He says, while heating the profit of my council,
avail yourself also of any helpful circumstances over and beyond the ordinary rules.
According as circumstances are favorable, one you should modify one's plans.
So don't get dead set on something.
Don't get locked into a plan.
You gotta be open to change it.
Continuing, all warfare is based on deception.
Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable.
When using our forces, we must seem inactive.
When we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are away.
When far away, we must make and believe we are near.
Hold out baits to entice the enemy,
fain disorder and crush him.
Now this is something that applies absolutely directly to Jiu Jitsu, obviously.
You know, oh, oh, you think you're going to get my arm?
Boom, I just swept you and got on top.
Oh, I'm really panicking this situation.
Oh, guess what?
I just got a deep half guard came out the back and now I'm going to choke you.
Back to the book.
If he is secured, all points be prepared for him.
If he is superior in strength, evade him.
If your opponent is of caleric temper, seek to irritate him.
Pretend to be weak that he may grow arrogant.
So this is something people don't think about.
In fact, that hey, if your opponent has superior strength, evade him.
And obviously, that's something that we also heard from Mal.
The same, that was the same guerilla strategy.
If your opponent is strong, you avoid him.
And here we say, if they're losing their temper a little bit, go ahead and irritate him.
Help that long.
Pretend to be weak so that your opponent grows arrogant.
And thinks there's enough to worry about you.
Continuing, if he is taking his ease, give him no rest.
If his forces are united, separate them, attack him where he's unprepared.
A peer where you are not expected.
These military devices leading to victory must not be divulged beforehand.
It's strange that this is the oldest book, and this thread runs throughout history.
And yet, people interacting with each other will constantly decide they're just going to go, you know, toe to toe.
You're going to argue with me, cool, I'm just going to go toe to toe with you.
Yeah, this is an intellectual approach.
And I think that's, you know, if you're not detached, it's harder to jump on that intellectual methodology.
Yes, with you, if you come at me, with your argument head on or you accuse me,
or you're trying to tighten me up on something, you're just being super direct with me.
It's your right.
I might get offended in the way I'm going to do, I'm going to go right back at you.
Right.
Instead of maneuvering on you.
So like, if someone's super smart or super calculated, they're way more likely to sign onto this type of stuff.
So as you start losing your temper with someone, think about what echo Charles just said,
that means you're not being very smart, you're not being very calculated.
It means you're making a mistake. You know, means there's a better route to go.
Yep.
Now, continuing.
Now, the general who wins a battle makes many calculations in his temple, air the battle is fought.
The general who loses a battle makes but few calculations beforehand.
So you got a plan.
And it's, it's interesting, you use the word calculate, calculate of,
and he just used the same word.
Now, this is something that I've talked about.
To fight in conquer and all your battles is not supreme excellence.
I'll say that again, to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence.
Supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting.
And I always take that one step further. I always take it to the point that the enemy doesn't even know that there was a fight.
They didn't even know what was happening. They thought they were having dinner and going to sleep, but they just got beat.
And that's especially true when you're part of a team and you're trying to win some,
you're trying to push your idea through, you're trying to convince people of something.
The best way to convince them is when you didn't go that toe to toe with them,
they came to the conclusion themselves, at least they think they did.
You fought them without fighting them.
Thus, the highest form of general ship is to block the enemy's plans.
The next best is to prevent the junction of enemy forces.
The next in order is to attack the enemy's army in the field.
And the worst policy of all is to besieged walled cities.
The rule is not to besiege wall cities if it can possibly be avoided.
Now, this is another thing.
And I've said this on this podcast before, which is, if someone is super dug in on a position, why are you going to attack him?
If you have this belief that you're just dug in on, and I'm trying to maneuver around it,
why am I going to attack that position? You've got, you know more about it, you've studied it.
You've been in this argument 47 times in the last three weeks.
So, how am I going to come up against you? And you've got that well for the five position.
Yeah, the answer is I'm not. It's not going to work out good for me.
Therefore, the skillful leader subdues the enemy's troops without any fighting.
He captures their cities without laying any siege. He overthrows their kingdom without lengthy operations in the field.
That's the goal.
That is the goal.
And that is something else about martial arts.
I think, like, when you get someone that really knows how to fight, most of the time you don't have to fight.
Yeah.
Most of the time, you can tell people can tell that you know how to fight.
Like, for instance, when they get in your face and you smile at him and you go, oh, let's do this.
Then they realize this is not a good idea.
Yeah.
A little projection of power.
Going on here.
Thus, we may know that there are five essentials for victory.
He will win, who knows when to fight and when not to fight.
This is sort of like when you're doing Napoleon and just about everything in the book.
You can just stop and think about it.
And it's also sort of like, you're jutsu in that what you've learned.
Once you hear it, it seems super obvious, but why aren't you thinking about all the time?
Right.
And why do you make stupid mistakes that portray that rule?
Because it's not front of your mind.
Right.
Yeah.
Like I said, the two, when you're emotionally charged, it's just handle things way different.
Which kind of ironic in a way, because that's what makes this so effective when people normally handle
themselves in that emotional way.
Yes.
And that's what if you're yourself in this way, that's the very thing that makes it effective.
Yeah.
And that's what I'm saying, theme to this.
Which hasn't been said.
I mean, he doesn't address this the way I dressed it the way I talk about it in our book, the way we talk about the podcast is the idea that you're talking about, which is the idea of detaching and not being emotional.
So that you can do things.
So that you can make good decisions.
Yeah.
Next, he will win, who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces.
He will win, whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all ranks.
So if you're in a leadership position, you got part of your team on board with the program, not good enough.
You got to get the whole team on board with the program.
That's who's going to win.
He will win, who prepared himself, prepared himself, weights to take the enemy unrepared.
I'm just going to wait until you're not ready.
Why would I square up?
You know, why would I do that?
If you're ready to fight me, we're not going to go.
Let's just wait till you're not expecting it.
Yeah.
Along with any emotional kind of state that some people are in where they don't exercise these types of strategies along with the emotional state is the ego-tistical state.
You know, the guy was like, hey, I'm just going to stand till it till.
You're like, all right, that's tough.
That might make for a show and fighting MMA situation.
But as far as the strategy to win, that's again.
It's cool for the show, but there's winning actually winning.
It might not be the best.
We'll just say that.
Yeah, I would agree with you.
Number five, he will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign.
Victory lies in the knowledge of those five points.
So that means you can't get micromanaged.
If you're being micromanaged by the higher powers, you're going to have problems.
And here's the classic saying that everyone's heard.
Hence the saying, if you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles.
If you know yourself, but not the enemy, for every victory gained, you are off also suffer a defeat.
If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.
So you've got to know yourself.
That's your team.
That's you.
That's why you've got to learn.
That's why you've got to study.
That's why you've got to train.
That's why you've got to test yourself too.
That's why you've got to put pressure on yourself.
Because you don't know yourself unless you put yourself into situations.
Physically, mentally, stress.
That's what you want to go into.
So that you know yourself.
When we use to send COP, when we send COP, it turns over.
They know what their limitations are.
They've been tested hard individually and as a unit.
Going on.
Sunsu said, and this is actually, that's a quote from the book.
So I guess he must have wrote that because this is allegedly a literal translation of Sunsu.
And so he starts off his statements with Sunsu said.
The good fighters of old put first put themselves beyond the possibility of defeat.
And then waited for an opportunity of defeating the enemy.
To secure ourselves against defeat lies in our own hands.
But the opportunity of defeating the enemy is provided by the enemy himself.
So he's going to talk about that more and it is laced throughout this book.
That you've got to focus on your game.
You've got to focus on what you can do in the situation.
Not worried about them, but like what can I do to be prepared?
Hmm.
Put myself beyond the possibility of defeat.
Hence, the skillful fighter puts himself into a position which makes defeat impossible and does not miss the moment for defeating the enemy.
Going on.
Sunsu said,
The control of a large force is the same in principle as the control of a few men.
It is merely a question of dividing up their numbers.
Now when I wrote about that and late for night talk about that all the time,
That's decentralized command.
Dividing up the numbers and having subordinate leadership running the teams and having subordinate leadership inside those teams running smaller teams.
That's all it is.
The principle of control is the same.
Now we get into a little bit of direct versus indirect.
Again, a topic that I talk about all the time.
In all fighting the direct method may be used for joining battle,
But indirect methods will be needed in order to secure victory.
Indirect tactics, efficiently applied, are inexhaustible as heaven and earth,
Unending as the flow of rivers and streams, like the sun and moon, they end but to begin a new.
Like the four seasons, they pass but to return once more.
So he's talking about how when you get to indirect tactics, they're infinite numbers.
Infinite numbers of ways to approach things.
There are not more than five musical notes.
Yet the combination of these five give rise to more melodies than can ever be heard.
There are not more than five primary colors, yet in combination they produce more cues than can ever be seen.
There are not more than five cardinal tastes, yet combinations of them yield flavors, more flavors than can ever be tasted.
In battle, there are not more than two methods of attack, the direct and indirect.
Yet these two in combination give rise to an endless series of maneuvers.
The direct and indirect lead onto each other in turn.
It is like a moving circle, you never come to an end.
Who can exhaust the possibilities of their combination?
He went a little, he went descriptive right there.
He was obviously convinced as I am too.
That even though there's basic maneuvers, the way that you apply them is limitless.
That's one of the things that makes leadership hard.
Because when you're dealing with people, there's a certain number of types of personalities you got to deal with.
But then those personalities are all mixed together in a way that you have to react to them and treat them a certain way.
They're the same.
Yeah, and then you have to deal with how they interact with each other as well.
And then not to mention the fact that they may or may not change as individuals, as the day goes on.
As the day goes on, they start getting hungry, they start getting angry.
Right?
Or maybe they just watch the romantic comedy and they're feeling a little different.
Well, that's hope that's not the case.
Whatever.
I don't know why I said romantic comedy.
All right, back to Sunsu. Sunsu said, whoever is in the first in the field and awaits the coming of the enemy will be fresh for the fight.
Whoever is second in the field and has to hasten to the battle will arrive exhausted.
Therefore, the clever combatant imposes his will on the enemy.
But does not allow the enemies will to be imposed on him.
Here, that all the time in MMA, who's going to impose their will on this fight?
Hmm.
By holding out advantages to him, he can cause the enemy to approach his own accord.
That's bait.
Right.
Or by inflicting damage, he can make it impossible for the enemy to draw near.
Hmm.
If the enemy is taking his ease, meaning if the enemy is trying to rest, he can harass him.
If well supplied, he can starve him out.
If quietly in camp, he can force him to move.
So all these are just little things to basically annoy the enemy.
Throw him off his game, throw him off of his game.
Up here, at points, which the enemy must hasten to defend.
March swiftly to places where you are not expected.
And army may march great distances without distress if he marches through country where the enemy is not.
You can be sure of succeeding in your attacks if you attack places,
which are not defended.
Totally obvious.
Right.
You can be sure of succeeding in your attacks if you attack places, which are not defended.
And this is something that we do in Gigiitsu.
You know, you're attacking the neck, you're attacking the neck, they're protecting the neck, they're protecting the neck, boom arm.
Or you're going for a community, you're going for a community, boom straight arm lock, other arm.
Yeah.
Big one is when you fake a submission to go for a guard pass or something that's not a submission, you know?
Because it throws your mind off, like Greg does that really well, where he'll go for that guitine.
And you're like, oh, he's going for a submission.
So your mind is one thing to be like, okay, I see he's going for my neck and then get my arm could be exposed.
That's one thing because you're thinking, okay, this submission to this next submission.
But if it's, you know, if they're going for something completely different, different aspect of the game, it throws your feet in more.
He's got me with that, like three times in a row before.
Yeah, that's basically going even further to the flank.
Yeah.
Getting some, you know, you're expecting this somebody to shoot you with a machine gun, they start lobbing mortars at you.
You weren't ready for that at all.
Or they start taking your guy's hostage, it didn't even let that through the back door or something like that, you know?
Completely different.
Yeah.
You can ensure the safety of your defense if you hold only positions that cannot be attacked.
How obvious is that?
Yeah.
Let's just get in positions where we can't be attacked and then we will defend them very easily.
The spot where we intend to fight must not be made known.
For then the enemy will have to prepare against a possible attack at several different points.
And his forces being thus distributed in many directions, the numbers we shall have to face at any given point will be proportionally few.
So you don't want to let the enemy know where you're going to attack him because then he can defend that specific area.
Whereas if he has to defend all of the areas, he's got less people defending where you're going to attack.
We didn't really well in World War II, the D-Day.
You know, the Germans did not know they were suspect where we were going to attack but they didn't know it was Normandy.
So they had a lot of defenses, strewn about another area's.
And they cost all.
Now here we go with how we deal with what the enemy does.
For should the enemy strengthen his van, which van is like the division at the front.
It's the front of your troops, van.
That's why they like to term van guard.
Is that your front front guard?
For should the enemy strengthen his van, he will weaken his rear.
Should he strengthen his rear, he will weaken his van.
Should he strengthen his left, he will weaken his right, should he strengthen his right, he will weaken his left.
If he sends reinforcements everywhere, he will be everywhere.
Week.
And that's what you know again going to Jiu Jitsu when someone is when you feel impassing and they're blocking you.
And they're thinking about a knee lock and you get all those things going on at the same time.
And you're just trying to spread your defenses then.
Then when they do one of those three, you're in trouble.
And I always explain to people, you know, when you, it's easy.
It's pretty easy for anybody.
If you tell me, I'm going to try and straighten out your arm and that's my whole focus is to stop you for straight in my arm.
It's, you know, I can do it.
I can do it pretty well.
I'm well defended on that area.
There's no opening somewhere else.
Right?
And the same thing with guard passing.
If I'm trying to pass your guard all tight.
Low and heavy.
And you're just defending defending defending.
That means there's opening somewhere else probably far away from you.
Yeah.
Super common with guard passing is, you know, you smash to the, you know, one side right your smashing smashing to one side.
And then you hop your hips over the other side.
That's why it opened all the time.
And the hearty you smash.
The more wide open that far side is.
Yeah, that's a common one.
Yeah, it's just a distraction.
Yeah.
And then a flank.
Mm-hmm.
Sun soon has been doing it for 2500 years.
Dang.
All right.
Do not repeat the tactics which you have gained.
Your on victory.
Do not repeat the tactics which have gained you one victory.
But let your methods be regulated by the infinite variety of circumstances.
Military tactics are like unto water.
For water in its natural course runs away from high places.
And a hastens downward.
So in war, the way to avoid what is strong is to strike what is weak.
Now, this is something that we definitely got raised with in the sealed things.
You don't use the same methodology over and over and over again and develop pattern.
You don't do it.
No matter how minor you change things up, you change things up.
Mm-hmm.
And that's something that any good military unit does.
It's something that anybody that's being able to do.
That's being threatened.
You know, if your life is in danger, you don't set a pattern on what you do.
You change it up.
Water shapes it's course according to the ground over which it flows.
The soldier works out his victory in relation to the foe whom he is facing.
Therefore, just as water retains no constant shape, so in warfare, there are no constant conditions.
You got to have an open mind.
You can't get trapped inside your own tactics.
You can't get trapped inside your own game.
And I see this with businesses we work with.
We've companies that we work with where they have got their thing that they've done and they've been successful for six years run.
And then all of a sudden something changes.
And they're trying to run the same methodology without ever stepping back and saying,
Wait a second, we did well.
We had a 12% growth average for the past six years.
And all of a sudden we're down 22%.
What happened?
Well, let's just do what we did before again.
And again, that's what that's what how people spiral into bankruptcy.
Well, because the conditions, the decisions come in change.
But conditions change.
And they don't look and say, oh, the enemy adapted.
The competitors adapted.
You know, we can look at some of these businesses that have gone on in the music industry has changed dramatically.
CDs.
I mean, imagine if you own a CD production warehouse somewhere.
I mean, you would have written CDs.
Yeah, it's our records classic example.
Yeah.
And back to that, doing the same thing over and over again.
Like, if you succeed with this one method, it's like sales people.
You know, sales people, they really look a lot of them.
And they really look at sales as this kind of war.
You know, it's me again.
Someone makes the sale either you sell them your product or they sell you way to come by, whatever.
When you see as a consumer, when you see the sale, especially from sales people directly,
when you see the same language over and over after all, you're like, I see exactly what you're doing.
See what you're doing.
You know how they ask you.
They'll ask you a question that if you say no to you look dumb or something like that, you know, so it's, I don't know if they're going to say yes 15 times a row.
Yeah, there'd be like, oh, obviously, right.
And you're like, I can't, you kind of feel like you can't say no.
But after all, you're like, I see what you're doing.
So it may work because then they probably teach them that.
You know, so it's like, oh, yeah, that works.
That works.
But yeah, I want to start getting hip to it.
Stuff won't work anymore.
Not, it's definitely not going to work on that.
Go Charles.
No, no, no, no.
I see what you're doing.
I see what you guys are doing.
All right.
And this is just restating the same thing.
He who can modify his tactics in relation to his opponent and thereby succeed in winning.
Maybe called a heaven-born captain.
So if you can look at what your opponent's doing, and this is something that, again,
I see companies do it.
I see jujitsu players do it.
They have that one thing that they're used to.
And then someone's really good at defending that one thing.
And they just keep going against it, keep going against it.
Keep running into that brick wall.
And it's not going to get you where you want to be.
Yeah, it's problematic.
Here we go.
From Sunsu, a soldier spirit is keenest in the morning.
By noon day, it has begun to flag.
And in the evening, his mind is bent only on returning to camp.
A clever general, therefore, avoids an army when it's spirit is keen.
But attacks when it is sluggish and inclined to return.
This is the art of studying moods.
Yeah, like that.
The art of studying moods is about knowing people.
Yeah, is that kind of like the guy in jujitsu class?
He shows up like 15 minutes before the class ends when everyone's been rolling.
Yeah, yeah.
He's getting everyone there and sluggish.
Yeah, when they're ready to turn me.
Go back to camp.
Like, hey, guys, want to roll off for ash.
It is a military axiom, not to advance uphill against the enemy.
Nor to oppose him when he comes downhill.
Do not pursue an enemy who simulates flight.
Do not attack soldiers whose temper is keen.
Do not swallow a bait offered by the enemy.
Do not interfere with an army that's returning home.
That's a good one.
They're going, they're running, let them run, let them go home.
They're going to fight hard to get home, right?
They got visions of their family and their head.
When you surround an army, leave an outlet free.
Do not press a desperate foe too hard.
And this is something you see psychologically a lot.
You know, with an argument, you got a couple executives.
And maybe the senior executive has a plan and no one likes the plan.
Well, you just don't want to box him in and prove him wrong in front of everybody.
Right?
You don't want to do that.
You want to be crafty.
You want to get your son sued together.
You want to leave him a little opening.
Where he can say, you know what?
After reconsidering, I've decided I want to go with this other way because I figured out that blah blah blah.
Yeah.
And I'm giving him an out.
What you don't want to do is make him stick to this bad plan because his ego is making him stick there.
Yeah.
Recognize.
Do not linger in dangerously isolated positions.
When you're doing your jutsu, don't when someone gets across side, you scramble.
You go crazy.
Don't let him settle there.
When somebody's trying to get that, call the geek all the way up underneath your head and they're going to have you trapped.
Don't let him get there.
Don't linger in dangerously isolated positions.
Move.
Yeah.
It's it gets so complex with this and in jutsu where it's just, just get considered just what you said.
Because this kind of, it kind of overflows into another part that he just talked about.
So let's say the example of the guy passing your guard into your side control.
During his past, you said don't let him settle.
Exactly.
So, but when he, let's say whatever you lose the fight for whatever reason, any does settle.
Now you're faced with a situation where if he's settled on you hard, where he's, you can tell he's putting strength into holding that position.
And then you try to scramble.
Oh, you're going against, you're going full speed, you know, toe to toe.
Like I always said not to do.
So at that point, you got to change your strategy.
If you had had already lost that battle, you and he settled and he's putting his energy into holding you.
Now you got to play another tactic that he said, let him, you know, you got to relax a little bit.
So he starts relaxing a little bit.
You know what, that's like that's a common thing.
That's like, you know, a pretty well known strategy I would say when you get advanced in GJ2.
But it's crazy how he just lays it out and that's the perfect exact exact example.
Yeah.
But all in one little, one little move.
One little movement.
And actually he continues on that same, on that same thread in himden situations.
In other words, when you're surrounded and you're under the bad situation, you must resort to strategy.
And strategy doesn't really mean strategy.
It means like tricks, more than exceptions.
So you've, you've given up, you've given up your position.
The person is dominating you now.
And exactly what you're saying is correct.
When someone has got you in that position, either in an argument or a plan or a situation that you're in or a relationship,
they've got you locked down, stop fighting.
You know, it's not going to work.
You're, they've got you.
If you continue to struggle, you're just going to wear yourself out.
You're going to worsen this scenario.
Stop.
And now you have to start thinking about a trick to get out of there.
Some kind of a better tactic, some kind of a deception.
Something to get you out of there.
Because going strength, the strength is going to do it.
They're in a superior position.
You know, sometimes you can tell someone's doing that.
If you have them in a situation and they start actually using this tactic,
little trick, a little trick, one that I've been able to recognize is they do like some ad hominom luck in argument.
They'll start attacking something else.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, of course.
But it's, yeah, if you kind of have a handle on the whole situation, it's real obvious.
Yeah.
And then he says, in a desperate position, you must fight.
Now the difference here is now there's a submission hold on you.
Yeah, no choice.
Yeah, you have to fight with your finger fighter going to tap.
Yeah.
So you get that situation where it's gone beyond just their secure and they've got unit dominant position.
But now they're actually going to kill you.
You have no choice but to fight the last level of settling.
Now this is interesting.
There are roads which must not be followed.
Armies which must not be attacked.
Towns which must not be besieged.
Positions which must not be contested.
Commands of the sovereign which must not be obeyed.
Hmm.
So it's always interesting to me when you hear somebody that's a military mastermind.
And they're saying that there are orders from their sovereign that must not be obeyed.
And I think we've heard that.
And this is something that people don't familiar with the military or not familiar with military history.
They think everyone just follows orders, follows orders, follows orders.
But Napoleon we've heard said, Sunsu we've heard said, we've heard these repeated things where people say,
You know what?
That's the wrong order.
And I'm not going to do it.
Hmm.
And it's interesting too.
The other dichotomy is all these people talk about the necessity of discipline.
And inherent in discipline is absolutely the following of orders.
But as much as stringent as I am about discipline,
Hmm.
If I'm I want my guys to question my words.
I want them to say, hey wait a second why is Jockel making us do this?
He's he's wrong.
I don't want them to still bang me blindly.
Hmm.
Because you don't want your team obeying you blindly.
You don't want that.
You want them to be thinking.
Back to the book.
The art of war teaches us to rely not on the likelihood of the enemies not coming,
but on our own readiness to receive him.
Not on the chance of his not attacking,
but rather on the fact that we have made our position on the salibal.
So what that is again, he's putting the the preponderance of the outcome,
not on what the enemy does, but on what you do.
It's not what happens, it's not what happens to you in your life.
It's what you do, it's what you prepare for.
Hmm.
It's your own readiness that's going to affect the outcome.
Not the chance of what the enemy is done, done.
It's how have you made your position.
Hmm.
How have you set yourself up?
How have you prepared?
How have you trained?
How have you worked?
That's where the outcome comes from.
Not what the world does to you, but what you do to the world.
Hmm.
There are five dangerous faults which may affect a general.
One recklessness which leads to destruction.
Two cowardice which leads to capture.
So those two, you got one guy that's a maniac that doesn't care,
he's going to go get after it, he's going to die.
You got someone else that's a coward, he's going to get captured.
Hmm.
Three, a hasty temper that can be provoked by insults.
Dangerous.
A delicacy of honor that is sensitive to shame.
Sort of the same thing.
And an over-solicitude for his men which exposes him to worry and trouble.
An over-solicitude that's basically you over-efectionate.
Care about the men so much that exposes you to worry and trouble.
These are the five-bassetting sins of a general.
Ruiness to the conquer.
Ruiness to the conduct of war.
Some things to watch out for and it's interesting, you know, obviously the one that's.
That's.
I guess the most controversial to me is that over-solicitude for his men,
which exposes him to worry and trouble.
Because, you know, in the modern military, you know, he was dealing with conscripts.
So even, it's interesting, even conscripts back then he said,
you could get to affectionate with your conscripts.
And now we have brothers.
And so you're gonna care about your guys.
You're gonna care about your guys more than anything else in the world.
But what you have to counter that with is not, hey, I'm not gonna care about them.
No, it's I'm gonna make sure I do everything I can to keep them safe.
Yeah, yeah, I think, like, you know,
a lot of companies they discourage, fraturizing with, you know, your co-workers.
So I saw work in the nightclub industry where, you know, from time to time,
people would hook up.
So what that can result in is, you know,
people who are too focused on the relationship between each other versus their job.
Oh, yeah.
So, I'm, this is a total assumption, but maybe that's what he's talking about.
No, that's exactly what he's talking about.
That's exactly what he's talking about.
And, but if you take that into the military scenario,
it's, you know, like I said, you're gonna care about your guys so much.
And you have to counter that with the fact that you have a duty.
Right.
And you have, you have a job.
Yeah.
And that everybody on your team, like we're in the civil teams, you all know the risk.
Everybody knows the risk.
Everybody knows that when you go on an operation, it might be your last operation.
You get hit with an ID, you get shot, you get mortar, you get blown up.
I mean, everybody accepts that risk.
Yeah.
And that, therefore, as a leader, you know, you're not imposing that risk upon them.
They volunteered for that risk.
And I think that's what allows a modern military commander to, to say,
hey, I love these guys, but they all know what they signed up for.
There's gonna be risk here.
And we got a job to do.
As opposed to, hey, I love these guys.
They don't want to be here.
And I'm gonna send them to their deaths.
That would not, that would be a different scenario, a harder scenario.
Yeah.
Or you got close.
Let's say, you know, you're in command of, you know, 10 guys.
Five of those guys are your best friends.
And you get to attached in the sense that you have a mission that you have to do.
A dangerous one.
But you're like, hey, I'm not gonna send those five guys because they're gonna be at risk.
I want to keep them safe.
You know, so I don't want to send them there.
See, the other five guys go rather than the 10 and, you know, messes up your whole job.
Yeah.
Your whole job.
Which, oddly enough, I will always send like the guys I love.
It's great.
Worst scenario.
Yeah.
All my brothers, they would be lining up and saying, I'm going.
And I'm going.
Yeah.
It's fired up.
See, yeah.
I mean, you're obviously a very specific type of person.
Yeah.
And your guys probably are too.
I would imagine.
But still, you're still exercising that discipline between, you know, them potentially going to their death.
And that job you guys have to do.
So you're thinking of it in a smarter way.
And it's interesting.
I just thought of this like, if a guy got in trouble for whatever reason when we were over on deployment,
whenever I was on deployment and combat, if a guy got in trouble, you know what their punishment would be?
You're not allowed to go on a mission.
I know. So that just tells you what kind of an attitude, you know, the guys that we're working with.
Yeah.
Is that, oh, you can't go on these next three missions.
Guys are angry.
Yeah.
And they're hurt because they realize they're letting their buddies down.
You know, if something goes wrong and they're not there, it's a nightmare.
Yeah. And they're, they're, they're duty, they're job is, it's part of them, you know, where I,
I was listening to this thing where he's talking about this, the omnisch, omnisch people, right?
And they're really into work, you know, hard work and stuff.
One of the punishments for the kids would be, you're not allowed to work.
Yeah. That's the same as the same thing.
It's like saying it's like there.
Yeah. Same thing.
Yeah.
Meanwhile, my kids, I got to beat them senseless to get them do any work.
Just kidding.
But I guarantee they're not working as hard as some omnisch kid out of field.
Yeah.
I'm putting up buildings with the wood nails that they do.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
Yeah. The work is obviously part of their identity.
You know, so like, you know, it's certain things people, let's say, quote,
I'm quote, normal people might find like exercise, for example.
Like if so, if let's say you're just an average person who's like, man, I got to,
I'm going to make a new just resolution.
I'm going to lose some weight or whatever.
I'm going to get a trainer and it's hard for them.
It's work for them.
Right. So the trainer is like, hey, today's rest day.
They're going to, oh, sweet.
You know, but then you take you for example, like how you're saying,
your wife is like, hey, maybe don't go to Jiu Jitsu today.
You're all pissed.
Yeah.
You know, so it's the exact opposite.
But so that's kind of the scenario when it's ingrained in you and it's starting to
become part of your identity.
Work or not work, you want to get that done.
Yeah.
That's interesting.
How those those embedded feelings, you know, develop in your life.
But what an awesome deal.
Like if you think about that, we would actually, if we had to punish our guys,
we'd punish them by saying you can't go on two missions.
That's perfect.
Yeah, it'd be angry.
They'd be bald.
They'd be letting down.
They'd like help everyone get ready and they'd stand there whenever it's leaving.
And learn their lesson first.
Pardon.
All right.
Next, when the enemy is close at hand and remains quiet, he is relying on the natural
strength of his position.
This is a good one.
So when you're when you're when you're in GJ2, when someone, for instance, pulls
guard real quick, you know, they've got a good guard.
Yeah.
You know, when someone's like all standing up and all upright and reaching for your collar while
you're standing, you know, they got some judo going on.
So it's funny how when when people have a dominant position, they'll lean towards it.
Yeah.
If his place of encampment is easy of access, he is tendering a bait.
So if it looks good to be true, it's too good to be true.
You got to watch that.
When there is much running about, it means that the critical moment has come.
When some are seeing it advancing and some retreating, it is a lure.
When soldiers stand leaning on their spears, they are faint from want of food.
If those who are sent to draw water begin by drinking themselves, the army is suffering
from thirst.
If the enemy sees an advantage to be gained and makes no effort to secure it, the soldiers are exhausted.
If birds gather on any spot, it is unoccupied.
If there is disturbance in the camp, the general's authority is weak.
If the banners and flags are shifted about, sedition is a foot.
When an army feeds its horses with grain and kills its cattle for food, and when the men do not hang their cooking pots over the campfires,
showing that they will not return to their tents, you may know that they are determined to fight to the death.
The sight of men whispering together in small knots and speaking in subdued tones points to dissatisfaction amongst the rank and file.
Now, all those right there, what I would like about those, because some of them are a little bit archaic.
People are leaning on their spears.
People not putting out their cooking pots.
Those are things that we are going to see today.
But what's so key about this is how observing how people act can tell you much more if you are paying attention to it.
You see people talking amongst themselves and small groups, there is a problem going on.
Those are the kind of things that you are going to be aware of.
Especially as a leader.
When you are in a leadership position and you see and you look and you watch and you listen.
Because actually some people, some leaders, they get isolated from the troops, they get isolated from the situation,
they get isolated from the enemy, they are not reading what's happening.
So you have to have this awareness and the sensitivity, right?
It is a sensitivity, it is a sixth sense of a something is not right here.
And what are you picking that up from?
When you walk in a room, everyone is all talking or you see from a distance people are talking.
And then when you either walk fire, you join them, they are happy to be done talking every single time.
That's not going to be a good sign.
They are talking about you.
Back to the book.
He exercises no forethought but makes light of his opponents.
It is sure to be captured by them.
So when you are saying, oh, we don't have enough in the fear here, we can take these guys, we can win that contract, we can beat the opponent, we can win.
That's when you are going to be taken down.
If soldiers are punished before they have grown attached to you, they will not prove submissive.
And unless submissive, they will be practically useless.
If when the soldiers have become attached to you, punishments are not enforced, they will still be useless.
Therefore, soldiers must be treated in the first instance with humanity, but kept under control by means of iron discipline.
This is a certain road to victory.
If in training soldiers commands are habitually enforced, the army will be well disciplined.
So now you do realize that Sun Siu 2,500 years ago was leading humans.
And if you came out of the gate before they knew you and you treated them bad, they were never going to work for you.
They were never going to submit to what you want to do.
And once they were attached to you, if you had punishments and now you had built enough respect, and then you said you were going to punish them for something that they did.
You said a certain standard, and then you don't hold it, they're going to be equally useless.
In consistent.
Firmly believe it.
If in training soldiers commands are habitually enforced, the army will be well disciplined.
You got to stay consistent, and you got to remember that you're dealing with humans.
When common soldiers are too strong, and their officers are too weak, the result is in subordination.
And this is something that I saw a couple times in my career, where I had a guy that worked for me, who was a tough guy.
This happened a couple times, just a badass guy, super tough beast, hardcore, go getter.
And when they worked for me, man, I loved him.
And they did anything.
I would tell them to go, you know, run through a brick wall, they would start running.
And they would run through the brick wall, they'd figured out, they'd get through that thing.
Super hard.
And then one guy, I like I went to another team, and he went on another deployment, and got sent home from deployment.
Because he was just too much to handle.
And his subordinate, I talked to him about it, he goes, oh, my officers were weak.
He literally said, my officers were weak.
And so here is like a cage to animal, that if you don't, if you just know who the boss is,
and he doesn't respect the boss, he's not going to listen to you.
He was the alpha male, right?
And when he was the alpha male, he was doing whatever he wanted, wasn't listening to these people that were in charge of him.
Yeah, what is that?
Like a mix of, like he doesn't, I don't want to look up to him, but there's a sense of that right where if your leader is just going to spend,
you have that kind of ingrained respect, and then not to mention on top of that, you don't fear any real consequences from him.
You know, it's kind of weak.
I can take whatever you can dish out kind of thing.
So it's both of those.
You think?
Yeah, oh yeah.
Yeah, this one guy that this happened with, I taught him Gjitsu, and he was excited about it in a way that I've never seen anyone excited.
Like, super happy about knowing that you could choke people, and he would get into fights in the civilian world,
and come and give me these full de-briefs and ask me for pointers and judgment,
and that was, you know, a warrior that liked to fight, and he found out that you could grab people and submit them.
You were super excited about it.
Yeah, like a little kid.
And I always say that that's kind of the risk you run with teaching people Gjitsu, because it is like,
I'm going to, it's a superpower, essentially, because you don't have to learn that much for it to be effective in this huge way.
So, you know, like, kind of like, what is it? Superman.
With great power and comes great responsibility.
Yeah.
Goes on to say, when the officers are too strong and the common soldiers too weak, the result is collapse.
So when you put the super hardcore guy over that can't modulate his, his leadership, he can't back off and build people up before he starts to smash him.
You're going to get collapse and that's something you definitely got to look out for, especially if you're a super strong leader and you come and take over a team that's been led by somebody that's weak.
There's a chance that the players in the team are weak.
And now you got to come in and build them up before you let loose your vicious leadership power, right?
You can't just come in there with the iron fist and start dropping hammers.
No, you need to say, hey, guys, all right, let's go, let's build this team up.
And then you can escalate your own force as your subordinates grow and become powerful themselves.
But you don't want there to be a huge gap between your power.
Yeah.
And theirs.
Because they won't develop into it. They'll just be in the shadow.
They won't grow in the shadow. You got to come down and let some light get to them and let them grow.
Right.
When the general is weak and without authority, when his orders are not clear and distinct,
when there are no fixed duties assigned to officers and men and the ranks are formed in a slavingly haphazard manner,
the result is utter disorganization.
Pretty clear.
If fighting is sure to result in victory, then you must fight.
Even though the ruler forbid it, if fighting will not result in victory, then you must not fight,
even at the ruler's bidding.
Once again, disobeying the chain of commands, sunsue himself,
disobeying the chain of command.
This is a big one. The general who advances without coveting fame and retreats without fearing disgrace,
who's only thought is to protect his country and do good service for his sovereign,
is the jewel of the kingdom.
So that guy that's not doing this to get famous, that's not doing this for awards,
that's not doing this to get promoted.
It's not being brave to be promoted, he's doing this to protect the country,
or to carry out the mission, not doing it for glory.
And furthermore, the same person can retreat without feeling like a disgrace.
That means they're going to protect their people without going all we can't fall back.
This person is the jewel of the kingdom, the jewel of the kingdom,
and it's beautiful when you work for people like that. That what they're trying to do is they're trying to do their mission,
they're trying to do good for the country, they're trying to do good for the team, they're trying to do good for the business.
That's what they're trying to do. They're not trying to get promoted,
they're not trying to get in the war, they're not trying to get a good fitness report,
or a good evaluation, they're trying to do a good job.
And that's why when people ask me a lot, you know,
all I've got this boss that wants to get the credit for everything, give it to them.
Give it to them.
Let them look good.
Don't do it for your glory.
Give that glory away. It feels good to give glory away. Give it away.
I told you, you saw working the nightclub right in the street back when I was young,
and kind of the protocol would be to, you know,
we'd work with whatever, and the bartenders would give us tips.
Like, you don't like a little tips, right?
So at the end of the week, it'd be kind of pulled, right?
And we'd get some tips at the end of the week, school, whatever.
So my boss, so he was back when I first started,
my bought the head door guy, right?
He was at the end of the week, he called his own little meeting with us.
We're like, all right, so he kind of goes over some stuff.
I don't even know what it was.
And he busted at the end. He's like, hey, guys, so, yeah, we have tips.
So what I did was, you know, hey, you guys are doing a great job.
I did was, I took my tips and I gave it to you guys.
And he kind of had this look on his face looking at us as if he needed us to be like,
wow, that was so great, but you know, when the look is so transparent,
he's like, so,
I was like, this guy, it's like so disingenuous, you know, like he wanted the credit.
And he wanted to be like, oh, thank you, thank you, you know.
It wasn't that much by the way.
Yeah, it was, you know, $14 each.
If that, because we got to divide it up anyway, but yeah, that was like,
is the clear example of that very thing right there where you can tell it.
Giving us the tips, I know what you did that.
Yeah.
You know, okay, you like my younger daughter.
She does good deeds for the sole purpose of increasing birthday present.
Christmas present.
Does it that kind of go into a different strategy altogether?
Yeah, that's pretty, it's pretty cute.
And you see this sexual, like, daddy.
I decided it would be really great if I picked up your socks.
Right, since my birthday is coming, right, but that's another tactic.
It's like, it's called a reciprocal something.
Like, when you do something and then you expect something to happen.
Yeah, but what that, it's effective.
Heart creation is used to do it.
They be like, you know what, hey, hey,
whatever their message is, and they'd be like, hey, take this free gift.
And they'd be like, I don't know a flower or a book or something.
And they know that that'll leave you the typical person.
They'd leave them with a feeling of dang, like, I kind of owe this person.
He was so nice to me.
I can't just walk off and be a dick.
You know, so I'll give you five bucks or $1,000.
Yeah, especially when you recognize they're doing it.
In fact, you do yourself a disservice to fall for it because they're going to keep doing it.
You know, it's basically gilting someone into do something.
But it's called reciproc...
I don't know, something reciprocal, something.
Well, I guess we'll look that up and figure it out later.
Yeah.
Otherwise, what's called reciprocal, something.
All right.
Now here you go.
This is speaking of kids.
This is awesome.
Regardless of your soldiers as your children,
and they will follow you into the deepest valleys.
Look on them as your own beloved sons,
and they will stand by you even unto death.
Completely true statement.
Mm-hmm.
If, however, you are indulgent,
but unable to make your authority felt,
kind-hearted, but unable to enforce your commands,
and incapable, moreover, of quelling disorder,
then your soldiers must be likened to spoiled children.
They are useless for any practical purpose.
I think that speaks for itself.
If you are so lenient with your troops,
when they say indulgent, that's what I mean.
I mean, I mean, a like, super lenient.
When you are lenient with your troops,
when you can't make your authority felt,
when you are super kind-hearted,
you are unable to enforce your commands.
All those things you can have,
and have spoiled little kids for troopers.
And they are not going to be worthless.
I got a little saying about kids.
Lay it on me.
If you are helping them, you are hurting them.
Think about it.
You want me to tie your shoe, tie yourself.
Because when they tie their shoes,
that literally trains their fine motor skills.
If you want them, if they want to glass a water,
go get your own glass a water.
They want help moving something across their hallway.
You move across the hallway.
If you are helping your kids, you are hurting your kids.
And I could take it one step further and say,
if you are hurting your kids, you are helping them.
You are not going to do that.
But really, I do think about that.
When your kids ask you for something,
you have to say, is this something they can do themselves?
Even if it is a struggle form, even if it is a challenge form.
For a while, my daughter was late for school,
and can you just tie my shoes?
No, I can't tie your shoes.
You can tie your shoes.
And that is when they work on their fine motor skills.
And that is when they learn that they can, that they have to get the skill.
They become more self-reliant.
Yeah, yeah, fully in, obviously I am not going to wage some kind of
semantical battle with you or nothing like that.
But it depends on what you mean by help.
And I talked about this before, where you have systemic help in direct help.
So systemic help is exactly what you do in entire own shoes.
How about you get, how about I teach you to tie your shoes?
And prepare you for this shoe tying world that you're about to embark in.
That's systemic help.
That's the real help in my opinion.
Same thing like a homeless person, you give a homeless person a dollar that's direct help.
That doesn't help.
That's hurting him, as you would say.
So what is that called direct help direct?
So don't give your children direct direct help.
Systemic help.
Your job is to prepare kids to do everything.
I think that's in a perfect world.
Everything on their own.
By the time they go.
And you actually can prepare a human to do everything on their own because at least you prepare them to face a challenge,
research out over a comment, practice over coming in and over a comment.
So if you teach them, if you teach them, you know you say you can give them a fish or you can teach them a fish.
You can teach them to learn how to fish on their own.
That's what you really want to do.
Yes.
Put that on a t-shirt.
Yeah, that's absolutely correct.
And if you go the more systemic, you could probably end up breaking it down into maybe three things.
And you know, whatever those things are, I know they're going to have something to do with how to think, how to manage
emotions, how to adapt like a lot of the real basic things that are going to in one way or another, apply to everything.
Yeah.
It's interesting that you go from this is in back in the book.
I went back to the conversation.
Back to the book.
It's funny how you're talking about sons who are to war and we're talking about kids.
We're talking about business.
We're talking about night clubs.
We're talking about you, Jitsu.
All right.
Back to the book now for real.
Those who are called skillful leaders of old, new how to drive a wedge between the enemies front and rear to prevent cooperation between his large and small divisions to hinder the good troops from rescuing the bad.
The officers from rallying their men.
So when you are looking at your opponent, what can you do to split them up?
What can you do to interfere with what they're trying to make happen?
That's a skill set in its own.
So instead of worrying about attacking you, I'm worried about I'm focused on dispersing you or splitting you up.
Instead of worrying about attacking you, I'm worried about hindering people from helping you.
It's a different way of thinking about waging a battle.
Instead of thinking about the battle itself, what other ways are there to go about this more creatively?
Repidity is the essence of war.
Take advantage of the enemies unreadiness.
Make your way by unexpected routes and attack unguarded spots.
There you go back to the human side of things.
Carefully study the well-being of your men and do not over-tax them.
Concentrate your energy and hoard your strength.
Keep your army continually on the move and devise unfathomable paths.
Now this is interesting.
Throw your soldiers into positions once there is no escape and they will prefer to fight.
They will prefer death to flight.
Officers in men alike will put forth their utmost strength.
At the critical moment, the leader of an army acts like one who has climbed up a height and then kicks away the ladder behind him.
He carries his men deep into hostile territory before he shows his hand.
He burns his boats and breaks his cooking pots.
It's a second time we've heard about those cooking pots.
Obviously that men's something back in the day.
That men is on.
We're not coming back.
We're not needing for dinner tonight.
But that's an attitude to have.
It's interesting. This is somewhat contradictory to some of what the other things that he said in the book.
If the enemy is strong, fade away.
Now he's saying, put your soldiers in a position where there's no escape.
That's contrary.
I understand or the way I translate that is if you have to accomplish something very challenging and you have no choice, step into it.
Step into it, kick away the ladder.
Break your cooking pots and let the guys know we're not coming back from this.
We have what one choice and that's victory.
All in.
Thus, or sorry, without waiting to be marshaled, the soldiers will be constantly on the Keevae.
Keevae, which means who goes, which means on watch, Keevaevae.
Without waiting, this is the important part.
Without waiting to be asked, they will do your will.
Without restriction, they will be faithful.
Without giving orders, they can be trusted.
So, you get the pure decentralized command, where without waiting to be asked to do something, they're going to do it.
That's what you want your troopers to do.
They will do your will.
Without restrictions, they will be faithful.
You don't have to hold on to me.
You don't have to give them commands.
You don't have to give them orders.
They're going to be faithful to you.
Without giving orders, they can be trusted.
That's true decentralized command.
And that's what you want.
And then, to wrap this one up.
One happy is the fate of one who tries to win his battles and succeed in his attacks without cultivating the spirit of enterprise.
Meaning he won't have everyone to think.
And we want everybody to be on the same page.
Move not unless you see an advantage.
Use not your troops unless there is something to be gained.
Fight not unless the position is critical.
Again, that's contrary to what I just talked about.
But I think the reason he said that is because sometimes you have to.
Sometimes you get into the decisive situation.
You have to fight.
You have to win.
No ruler should put troops into the field.
Marlee to gratify his own spleen.
And spleen when he says that that you step be where people.
Thought that the seat of emotion was.
So your emotion came from your spleen.
So he's saying what you've been saying the whole night.
No ruler should put troops in the field.
Nearly to gratify his own emotions.
And that emotion could be a good idea.
It could be irritating.
No general should fight a battle simply out of peak.
And that's pride and ego.
If it is to your advantage to make a forward move, make a forward move.
If not, stay where you are.
Such is the art of war.
Obviously, so much to be learned from the past, from the ancients.
And also it's so accessible.
There are so many lessons to be learned there.
Lessons that if you learn there mistakes that you don't have to make yourself.
All you have to do is open a book.
It open your mind.
And you'll be there.
And I think we can now go to questions from the interwebs.
Let's do it.
But before that, internet stuff, go to onit.com slash jockel.
And why do you want to do that?
Get some good stuff.
Yeah, good stuff.
Supplements.
Shroom tech.
If you're into high intensity workouts for some prolonged period of time,
give to you, give to you that boost and that sustenance.
As far as output goes, alpha brain helps your mind work.
That's the ones that I think we, that I recommend.
And the warrior bar.
Do yourself that favor in life.
And I do the krill oil.
Of course krill oil.
I went to a meeting this week.
They had a big old stack of warrior bars when I went in.
They brought it.
Yeah.
They were in the game.
My boy Zach was in the game down there.
You know, that'll surely enhance the meeting for sure where you're going.
Get it.
You did.
Powered me up.
Also, if you're in the mood to support this podcast, go to jockelpodcast.com.
Before you shop at amazon.com.
Click on that little link there.
You know, I'm making kind of passively support to jockelpodcast.
Or get some shirts if you like a jockel store.com.
Or a mug.
Coffee mug up before the enemy.
First question.
Jockel.
As an overthinker, you missed some factors.
Exiety, low confidence, low IQ,
or IQ, perfectionism, and often a failure to prioritize.
Yeah.
So this is a question from the last podcast.
And this guy just sent me this tweet. And I thought it was a good assessment.
Right.
Because I'm not an overthinker.
And maybe this guy is, and sorry, don't have his Twitter calls on there.
But he maybe he's an overthinker.
So he kind of knew about it.
And if you don't remember the question, you know, someone that over thinks things,
they get analysis paralysis, right?
They just start thinking and thinking and thinking.
They're frozen from their own thoughts.
Too many thoughts.
And so I thought these were good little factors here.
And it basically, to me, and all boils down to actually fear.
Because if you're thinking, then you're not taking action.
And if you're not taking action, then there's no consequence.
And if there's no consequence, and there's not any afraid of.
So I think that the overthinking can be an excuse for actual fear.
And same thing with like, all my perfectionist.
That's also fear. It's fear of not being perfect.
And then on top of that low confidence, well, if you have low confidence, guess what?
You're afraid.
Your confidence is low.
You're not sure yourself.
So you sit around and think about doing it instead of actually doing it.
And then anxiety.
Well, yeah, anxiety actually is fear.
You're afraid to do something.
And then IQ.
Now that might be, I guess, maybe someone has a high IQ, and therefore they're thinking a lot.
And maybe that's not fear.
But let me ask you a question.
If you're so smart, then why aren't you taking the action and making something happens?
We've got a big IQ that's no excuse to sit around and overthink things.
Especially because if you're so smart, why can't you come up with a quick solution?
Why can't you realize that overthinking is actually causing the problem of harm?
It's not moving the problem forward.
So quick thinking so much and take action.
Next question.
He's talking about the Tim Ferriss, the video.
That was the extension of your Tim Ferriss.
Yeah, yeah.
You're talking about martial arts.
Or martial arts.
What are the best martial arts?
Right.
If you haven't seen it, you can look it up.
So he says, with respect to the above mentioned video about your views on real martial arts,
I have one quick question.
You said that you came to your conclusion based on a sparring match between yourself and one of your fellow Navy Seals.
Was the match between yourself and the traditional martial arts with 20 years experience of friendly sparring match, typical in training,
where he was pulling his punches and strikes or was he attacking you with full force.
From my observation, you did two guys collect some headshots while going in for a take down.
And if a traditional Karateka karate practitioner doesn't hold back with this had some devastating effects in the long run,
similar to what Profit Balls players experience.
I would love to get your take on this someone who is real world experience.
Okay, so first of all, I didn't come to a conclusion based on that one event.
I mean, that event influenced my thoughts today, but even right now I don't have a conclusion.
Someone could show me something today.
It's possible that I go, wow, that worked really well.
I never thought of that and that's new.
That now trumps everything else.
It could happen.
Not likely though.
My mind is still open, but that's not likely.
I've seen a lot.
Now in that particular scenario, he was usually, he wasn't using a striking art, a traditional striking art.
He was using a traditional grappling art actually, I keto.
And so he was grappling with me.
He wasn't throwing punches at me, but it doesn't matter because I have spared and or fought with plenty of people over the years.
That were absolutely trying to knock me out, no doubt about it.
And the fact of the matter is, it doesn't work.
Even where this guy above, like, for instance, this guy in the question, he says, if a traditional karate practitioner doesn't hold back,
it would have the same devastating effect in the long run similar to what pro football players experience.
That statement actually defeats itself because if you watch a football game, those guys get hit in the head a hundred times during a football game.
And how often do they get actually knocked unconscious? Not very often.
If you multiply whatever ten players per side that are actually banging heads, times however many plays, you know,
you're talking about thousand, you know, probably more than a thousand head on head contacts in a football game.
And there might be one knockout in a game.
Sometimes there's no knockouts.
Yeah.
Typically not knockouts.
The fact of the matter is hitting someone in the head is not a guaranteed knockout by any stretch of the imagination. In fact, it rarely occurs.
It actually rarely occurs in boxing.
You know, where two guys are trained to do that.
So it's hard to knock somebody out.
And it's the same thing in if you watch UFC, especially the early UFC's.
This was proven over and over again.
That, yeah, the grappler is going to take some hits on the way in, but they're going to get in.
And they're going to take the person down.
And of course, do you have a punch or chance? Of course you do.
There's a very small chance that when you shoot it on somebody, they time a knee or they time a punch and it happens to hit you right in the spot that knocks you out.
It does happen. It happens and you have to see occasionally.
If you look at a number of take-downs to the number of knockouts that happen while the take-down is going on, it's not a big number at all.
Correct.
You don't want to rely on that as your formation of self-defense at all.
Now when things evolved, eventually to where the strikers were wrestlers too.
And you got guys like Chuck and you got T-do and you got Randy where it wasn't their striking that was preventing the take-down.
It was because they were badass wrestlers.
That's what we stopped in the take-down.
Had nothing to do with the way they punched.
So you really can't count on striking to stop a grappler.
That is not a good plan to say, hey, I'm going to get so good at striking that I'm going to stop a grappler.
That is not a good plan. What you have to do is learn to grapple.
You have to learn to wrestle. You have to learn to do it too.
And the opposite side of that is you can't count on grappling to take down a striker because that person might know how to wrestle.
And therefore you need to know how to strike.
So it goes back to what I say all the time.
You got to know how to grab and get to know how to strike.
Right. Yeah. And if he's talking, he says a traditional karate practitioner.
Traditional.
So I'm assuming that the only understanding I have of traditional is he doesn't do karate and he just doesn't.
He's not a mixed martial artist. He just knows karate.
So what I've lost on ground.
Yes, and I've taken karate before and there was no take down defense. There was no take down. There was no functioning in any capacity on the ground.
And so.
Yeah. And how you say like, okay, over the long term, okay, you're going to have head trauma and lasting damage.
If you take sustained.
Yeah.
Head trauma repetitive.
Over the years, really, but we're worried about the next 42 seconds of a fight that's about to happen.
Not the next 30 decades of my life where you can see me break down because I took some head trauma.
Exactly. Right. So you'd have to get, let's say that for the example of this question that you're experienced with this guy.
He was a karate guy and he was going full speed.
And he didn't knock you out. We'll just assume that he didn't knock you up.
You'd have to go.
I'm going to restate that that is a very safe assumption to assume that the karate guy was not able to knock me out.
That I was able to come in, you know, stand there, get it a good distance,
faking with my hands, touch his face a couple times. He throws a big punch.
I do a double leg take down. He's on his back.
It's game over.
Yeah.
And by the way, go watch any YouTube video of, you know,
get to versus whatever and it's the same outcome every single time. You know, occasionally there'll be one with a lot of hits because it's the chance knock out or the chance of something else happened.
Yeah.
But 99% of the time, it's double leg take down slam on the ground, game over.
Sorry.
Look at who did Randy Couture fight that Pro Boxer, Tony James Tony.
Oh yeah.
It was that exactly. Here's a world-class boxer professional boxer. What did Randy do?
Got inside, took him down, came over.
Oh, why didn't you knock him out?
Because you can't.
Right. You can't just knock people out.
Yeah.
Fully.
And that's not to mention it. I mean, I'm going to mention it.
But that it is not to mention that,
especially if you practice that the more self-defense, like it's heavily self-defense oriented due to one of the first things you learn is distance management.
One other first things you learn.
It's like, you almost can't get past that element of it.
So you will take hits, of course.
Maybe you'll take it to the top of your head, shoulders or whatever.
But yes, significant strikes to anything to warrant how it's stated here in the question long-term damage compared to football players.
You back to your situation.
You going with this guy, let's say he did go full speed.
You would have to do probably 10 to 15 bounce of that every single day.
For a long time.
For you to have any sustained damage.
And then.
So maybe if this guy is taking the long-term strategic view,
you're going to continue to spar me.
Hit me in the head and time.
I'm saying, you're the old man.
Maybe you're a realistic disease.
And maybe I'm saying maybe.
So because if he's a traditional guy, he doesn't know how to manage the take down.
So knowing how to manage the take down makes your strikes more effective.
You don't have that.
Your strikes are not effective.
So okay, you take one hit.
Let's say, let's say you take five hits.
Right?
You controlling the fight as much as you did to does.
Even if you're not that high level versus the guy who doesn't know judi-to.
Way outweighs this grossly.
To the point that these things are aside from the punchers chance.
In effective.
And I think UFC 1, 2, 3.
You know, as before people started to get hit to the whole judi-to thing.
But before people knew judi-to.
They just knew there are other stuff.
That was the testing ground.
And I was the whole reason UFC was invented by the way.
And that's why those first UFCs are awesome.
Yeah, you get to see these 250 and no bare knuckle kickboxer guys strong.
You know, go in there with real quote unquote real fighting experience against a way smaller grappler.
Do you get to guy in lose?
In fact.
This is to go one step further if you watch UFC 2.
Pat Smith, who's one of my favorite guys by the way when I was watching is the kickboxer.
It was bad ask guy.
Two 10 solid wrecking guys makes it to the finals against voice greasy.
And the voice greasy didn't tap them out.
Or he tapped them out.
But now with the submission hold, he tapped them due to strikes.
So a grappler guy found it out.
You know, a striker guy.
No submissions.
It was all punches.
It was nowadays known with every top to that now.
But I'm just saying.
Yeah.
Only because they know.
If you don't know.
You just think you're dead.
Yeah.
Yeah. One guy like I said before, one guy tapped because he was claustrophobic. He just got mounted.
But nonetheless.
Yeah.
It's hard to really reconcile really what this question.
I don't know if it's implying anything.
Well, it's definitely implying that this guy that I was going against was like holding back.
Right.
And that might it, you know, hold the different tail if you don't.
Yeah.
I've been against countless, literally countless of guys have spared against me trying to knock me out.
Whether they're traditional martial artists, whether they're just countless guys.
Yeah.
And it's hard to knock somebody out.
And I don't know who that's a question. Of course I'm not going to, you know, hate on the question or nothing like that.
But speaking from experience, this sounds like the exact question that inexperienced people have.
You know, people who are, well, it's, no, this is coming most likely from somebody that's been heavily involved in traditional martial arts.
And it had been told that, hey, don't worry about somebody trying to take you down because if you just hit him here and here,
or they'll fall and you'll win.
That's exactly what I'm talking about.
That's not, that's not good.
That's sort of what I put this in here.
And you know, just to make sure that, um, that they realize that, hey, you shouldn't, you should actually pay attention to what else is going on in the world.
Instead of staying in like, hey, just this one little traditional martial art.
Yeah.
And it's the same thing with you.
If you're just doing GJ2 and I got this in here later, there's another question about this.
But I mean, I don't tell people just train GJ2.
I tell them, train GJ2, train Dressling, train Boxing, train Moitai.
Yeah.
And you know what, when you get done with all that and you have a good based train Krav Maga,
and then you, you know what, do realistic situations.
By the way, you should learn how to shoot a gun.
By the way, you should be in good shape.
Do everything.
Yeah.
One answer is not the answer.
T-shirt.
Next question.
Every time we say something like that, like a one.
Answer is not the answer, which I must admit sounds pretty cool.
That's pretty dope.
But we'll get everyone's going to say, put that on a t-shirt.
And then I have to refer to echo and see if he's going to put it on a t-shirt.
You know, we'll see how that works out.
All right.
Next question.
Is it better to reveal too much information or too little information, both in personal life and leadership?
Okay.
So there's two sides to this, not just the personal and the business side, but in the business side, there's two pieces really.
There's operational and planning, right?
So if you've got something that you're planning for, whether you're in a company and you're trying to plan a new strategy for the next quarter or the next year or the next company that you're going to open or the new coat.
Whatever you're going to do, there's that and you're planning that.
Then I want to and and in the military if you're planning an operation, you're putting together a mission that you're going to go do in both those situations.
I give everyone all the information that I have absolutely.
I don't.
I let them know everything that I know so that they can weigh everything as much as I weigh.
In fact, I want them to toil with the with the information more than I do.
So that I can kind of get a fresher look at it when I come in.
So and I think I do and I did see people that would hold back information in those situations, leaders that would hold back information.
Why would they do that because they're insecure?
Because knowledge gives you power.
And you use that knowledge to say, you come in and echo's got a good plan put together and I go, yeah, but you've got to think about this right here.
And you just say, well, I didn't know that.
But it gives me a little bit of leverage, it gives me a little bit of power.
That's ridiculous. So when it comes to planning and operations and conducting business and planning missions,
man share all the information you've got in your organization, now to your organization.
So everybody has the knowledge.
That's answer number one.
Then we get to the information regarding the leadership of humans.
You do your words like transparency and we got to be honest and you hear those things getting thrown around.
And of course, no one's going to argue with them.
Right? No one's going to argue and say, hey, you shouldn't be honest.
No one's going to say you shouldn't be transparent, right?
But the fact of the matter is you cannot always share all the information all the time when it comes to leading people.
You can't do it.
And here's the problem of why you can't do it because people can't always handle the truth.
And when you give them the truth, they might have a bunch of different reactions, right?
Some of those reactions being anger and defensiveness.
So in other words, if I tell someone, hey, I'm putting this other person in charge because I don't think you're smarter enough to figure out the solution.
That's my true statement. I'm going to be honest with you.
I don't think you're smart.
What is that, too? How does that affect the mission?
Does it move us closer to the goal?
Is that person now going to be really supportive of me and work hard knowing that I think they're stupid?
The answer is of course not.
I mean, another example is what if you think that your boss's plan is terrible?
So you go in there and say, hey, your boss's terrible, your plan that you came up with is awful.
Now, there might be some bosses that are secure in their leadership and their secure with it.
And they go, oh man, why do you think that?
Here, break it down for me. That's cool.
But a lot of bosses are going to be insulted by that.
A lot of bosses are going to hurt their ego.
And instead of listening to the idea that you have, instead, they're going to be angered by it.
They're going to turn it off. They're going to turn off their minds. They're going to be mad at you.
They're not going to listen to you anymore because the way you came across.
So you would have been better off not being quote unquote honest and not sharing all the information.
You would have been better off slowly trying to take the plan that he came up with and maybe maneuver on it or maybe say, hey,
boss, I don't know if that's going to work because of this thing over here, but you'd be tactful.
And there's a million examples we could talk of like that.
And so when it comes to leading people, not operations, not planning missions, but when it comes to leading people, you need to think.
Think about what you're saying, thinking about how it's going to impact the relationships, up and down the chain of command.
Think about how it's going to impact the mission because if you're a good leader anywhere on that,
anywhere on that chain of command, if you're a good leader, the most important thing you should be achieving the mission.
So if you're honesty is actually creating adversarial relationships inside your team, what good are you doing, moving the mission forward?
The answer is you're not.
So I'm not telling you to be dishonest, but I'm telling you to think.
And it's the same thing in your personal life.
You've got to think about what you're saying. You've got to think about your wife's perspective,
or your husband's perspective, or your kids' perspective, or your friends' perspective.
How is what I'm about to say going to affect them long-term?
You've got to be measured. Now you might give them a little hint of something.
And then see how they react and maybe you could be a little bit more honest with them. Maybe you could throw some bait out there and see if they bite on it.
But you just don't want to jump in or throw it out to where now you've created an adversarial relationship with your friend,
with your spouse, with your kid, because now they're not listening to you.
And with your kids, oh, you got to be totally honest with your kids. Okay. You know what?
Totally honestly. I don't think you're capable of being this level of an athlete.
Right? Do they need to hear that when they're nine years old? Probably not.
Hmm.
So you just kind of think.
You got to think. And there's a ways to get that information across
in a tactical way, in an indirect way, so that it still manages to improve the person.
Hmm.
Because I don't want to have echo come up with you come up with a bunch of bad ideas.
And all I do is say, oh, that's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
And train you. I didn't improve you.
I want to say, hey, you know what? That's not bad. What if we did this? You know what I mean? And so we move in the right direction.
Hmm.
We still have some mentorship going on, but it's indirect. We still have some coaching going on.
But it's indirect because I don't want to coach you and you don't want to be coached by me.
You even my son.
When I like tell him something in jujitsu, I've been doing jujitsu for over 20 years with some of the best guys in the entire world.
Hmm.
And I'll say, hey, Thor, you need to scoot your hip a little bit more and you do that move. And I go, no, you don't.
Really? No, actually you do it. What he'll listen to Jeff. He'll listen to Dean. Actually, you won't actually have heard him argue with both Jeff and Dean.
He's a view of their approach.
Yeah, maybe he'll be a little more into that.
Yeah, they're a good man.
And that kind of illustrates one of the many challenges with that. You know, one of these simple, but not easy things.
Because everyone's different. How you saying throw something out there to see how they respond. Everyone's going to respond different.
That's the thing. So it is kind of this feeling of process.
It's, you know, I think that and I mentioned this before, where you know, some people will be direct, but people don't really like them.
And then they they'll kind of double down on it and say, hey, you know, I speak the truth, you know, and like me for who I am or whatever.
So what you do when you do that when people do that is they render themselves ineffective in situations.
Now no one's, let's just show exactly right. And guess what, no one's inviting you to their party. No one's to be a friend.
You know, you may or may not have gotten the divorce from it. And it's all because you, essentially, you just chose to be a dick.
Look, we all understand that certain things are insulting if you're quote unquote too honest, you know, everyone except you.
You know, if you look around and no one wants to be around you, that's a problem.
Yeah, news flash.
You're a jerk. Yes. And the edge and people don't follow jerks.
They really don't. Yeah. So it's not it. It's not honesty is never an excuse to be a jerk to people.
Yeah. And don't mistake.
You know, people of this kind of misconception that speaking your mind is a good thing.
It's not back in white.
You're totally right. Don't be like, hey, that's it.
That's it's so crazy about this is like, um, people, I think always have that feeling. I mean, I said it when I was talking, you know, people say, oh, of course honesty is, you know, the best thing you got to be honest.
And I would say that I am, I am known as a person that is honest and a straight shooter.
And that's great.
But at the same time, like you just said, that doesn't mean I run around it in salt people. It means I'm a tactician. You know what?
It's not honesty. It's tact. It's being a tactician.
Because this is something that can actually go too far as well.
If you're constantly always telling everyone thing every all sugar coated, well, now the known and respectful opinion either.
You just hear them saying, if I just say, oh, echo, you did a great job with that video. You did a great job with that video too. You did great. Well, what if you were producing junk videos?
I need to tell you. I know it's a rough example.
I would need to think of something that you didn't do such high quality or pointy thing.
But I've got to, I've got to be honest with you. And if all I do is tell you, hey, it's great. It's great. It's great. It's great. It's great. It's great. It's great. You know, that doesn't help us.
What I need to say is, hey, man, that's an awesome video. It'd be cool if you captured this angle too, right? Or, do you think it'd be possible to get this message across also?
And you'd say, oh, I can do anything. You see how I just played during that?
Did you see how I did that? Yeah.
Yeah. Like, oh, do you think it's even possible to get this angle in there?
Oh, yeah, I could make it come across strong.
Dang. I didn't even know there was a fight.
You didn't just want to, I just had a little bit of a injury up in here.
Yeah. So it's not black and white. You know, or like everything, it's a balance. It's a balance.
It's a black codomy. Yes. It's a codomy between telling the truth and being taxful.
Yeah.
Next question.
Jocco, how do you handle it when someone up the chain of command?
Be trays, trust.
Like, what is this like lying? They lied to you.
Yeah, well, this could be, this is a huge, this is a huge spectrum of things.
I guess. So for number one, you just learned.
Right. You just learned something about someone's character.
Yeah. You now kind of know better what you're dealing with.
Now, if this is a major situation, you might have to immediately confront it and or go above them in the chain of command.
I mean, if there's lives at risk, if there's something morally wrong that is happening,
if there's something illegal that's happening, that now you're going to get wrapped into.
And that's another decision you got to make. If you're not going to be wrapped into it, then it's a decision you got to make.
If you want to ruin this person's life, whatever. That's a different decision.
That's not this question. We'd have to deal with that in a separate question.
Are innocent people being hurt?
So if it's something like that, lives at risk, something morally wrong is happening.
Something illegal is happening.
Innocent people being hurt, then you're probably going to have to say something.
You're going to have to say something.
Now, I would say this before you say something.
Make sure all your ducks in a row, make sure you have evidence.
Don't go off half cock to be ready because people that are deceitful like this.
They prepare. They are ready for battle to protect themselves and they don't care what happens to other people.
So you're going to watch out for that. Now, if it's something minor, you know, if it's something minor,
then that's something that you log down in the brain.
Something that you log down in the brain.
And, um,
but it allows you to see person's character.
And that means again, it's a minor infraction, but it also means you've got to watch yourself and you've got to watch them a little bit more closely.
You've got to be careful because people like that.
They think they're smarter than everyone else.
They think that they're getting away with life.
So they think they're smarter and there's like a little hint of social path in there that they can get away with these lies.
And so you've got to watch them.
You got to watch them carefully.
And like I said, it kind of goes back to that previous question.
Because you don't want to be a person that comes across as dishonest yourself.
And if people don't think they can trust what you're saying, they're not going to trust you.
With other things.
So if you know I'm not giving you good feedback because I'm too nice, you're not going to start.
You're not going to respect my opinion anymore.
So, you know, when you're when you're dealing with someone, if someone comes to you instead of again,
this is honesty versus dishonest. If you come to me and say, hey, what do you think of this plan?
I'm not going to say, I think that's a stupid plan.
I might say, I don't know if that's how I do it. I might try this approach, right?
You're just going to be diplomatic if you, if I'm not going to say to you, I don't think you're smarter enough to figure this out.
I want to move you to a different division because I don't think you're smarter enough to solve this problem.
I'm not going to say that.
I'm going to say, you know what? I need you on this other project over here that I think you're going to be really knock this thing out of the park.
Now you're going to know deep inside.
But it's called tact.
And that's what you have to use.
But back to the honesty or when person betrays your trust, you've learned, you've learned about their character.
If it's a big thing, you're going to have to talk about it. You're going to have to tell somebody.
It's a little thing.
You got to watch.
Kivie, I think we just learned that vocabulary tonight.
Who's there? Watch.
Yeah.
You know how you see? And you log it in your brain.
Right. Logging in your brain. That okay. They lied about that.
Or oh, I. And I think you should constantly do that.
Right. And I think we all do that anyway. That's really, I think that's why.
And your brain has certain ways just the way it's wired. Like first impressions.
Right. That's usually a big thing.
But really what's really going on isn't that the first impression is this has more weight,
specifically than other impressions that you get along the line.
It's because let's say you don't, let's say I don't know that much about you.
I don't know. Really, this is the first time I've ever met you heard about you, whatever.
Your first impression is not that it's so heavy. It's just it's the only impression.
So it seems like everything. If you're addicted to me, okay, you're addicted.
In my mind, you're just addicted.
Second day, you're not addicted. You're 50% addicted, which is that still addicted.
You know, even if you're 20% addicted, you're like, okay, I like on buddy still addicted.
You know, so again, my point is you're always logging stuff in your brain.
What is this person? What is this person? Not when it comes to someone who betrayed your trust.
This doesn't really count them out as far as trusting them.
Because a lot of times the more time you spend with them, the more experience you have with them,
you start to get a picture of, okay, he'll be trained by trust in this case, in this type of situation.
It's like if you have a friend who he would literally risk his life to save your life,
but at the same time, he would probably hook up with your wife.
If you had the opportunity, you know, so there's different kind of things.
So as you gain experience with people, he is therefore risking his own life.
That's a true story.
Sure, of course. But you start to get a picture of who the person is.
And I don't have any friends like that.
But I do know what you're saying.
Yes.
People that have different moral compass and moral values, and so you're judging them based on that.
Right.
Yes. So just be careful not to judge a Mason.
That's all.
We're talking about the point.
Yes.
But that's part of this big picture.
So, because ultimately you want to get to the point,
and I've had this experience specifically in my life before where
you know, you want to get to the point where you trust them.
Yeah, I trust them to be that person.
You know, I know he's not trustworthy in this, but he's trustworthy.
So yeah, he's role in my life or in this company or whatever.
I know.
I trust him to be him.
Therefore, I won't give him this task.
You trust him to be them.
Yes, exactly right.
I trust the scorpion to be the scorpion.
Exactly.
The frog to be the frog.
Yes.
And that comes with like the experience.
So if someone, you know, if it's like you said if it's a minor thing,
don't go jumped on his throat or just jumped to this thing,
really just be like, okay, you know, deal with it in your way,
but like I said, log in in your brain and move forward.
What, you know, and keep your eyes open to things that you can trust more about.
Yeah, and get that full picture.
And I hate to say this enough set of before.
I don't have these massively high expectations of other human beings.
Yeah.
I hate to say it, but I'm kind of anticipating that they're telling me half truths.
So don't get these high expectations and expect that people are going to try and get one over on you.
Yeah.
And then when you do get your core of people that you know are really truly trustworthy,
that's awesome.
Yeah.
That might be three people in your life.
And that's, I would say that that's fair.
You know, I think a lot of people are like that.
And I think everyone's like that in one way or another.
You know, and it's a spectrum.
But I've been in a situation where,
So when say, hey, do you know this guy?
I'm going to be like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
They'll be like, yeah, are your friends with that guy?
Like, isn't he hard to trust because of like this?
And I'll say, I don't find him hard to trust.
I trust him to be him.
And just exactly how you're saying you trust the scorpion to be a scorpion.
Yeah.
You know, scorpion can be relied upon for specific things and straight up can't be relied upon for certain other things.
So again, if you just keep your eyes open and you know,
don't start burning bridges with the person if it's this small thing.
As time goes on, you can start to get a feel of really who this person is in the entirety.
And it might be beneficial in the situation you're in with them.
Know your people.
I agree.
Next question.
Here's a strange one.
I have ongoing regret for never joining the military or police department.
And I'm not yet strong enough to consider changing careers now for financial reasons.
I also don't know how to discuss this with my wife as we want to make some additions to the family soon.
I feel unfifilled in the single aspect of my life.
It's a strange feeling, considering I have skyrocketed up the chain in my company.
So quickly.
So many would do anything to be where I find myself.
How do you overcome your face or how do you overcome or face your son?
Or face yourself knowing you're holding back from a certain calling?
Because I really do see it as a calling in some form.
I'm interested to hear from you.
I think this is pretty easy.
Go join the reserves.
Go in the army reserves.
Go in the like every branch has some reserves.
Where you're going to do one weekend a month.
You have to do boot camp.
That'll be whatever it's going to be.
10 weeks, 12 weeks, 14 weeks depending on which branch you go into.
And then you do one week and a month.
And you do two weeks in the summer.
You'll understand what the military is about.
There's actually a chance.
Well, first of all, there's a chance to be deployed.
I mean, when we were in Iraq, you know, when we deployed to Ramadi,
my second deployment to Iraq, the unit that was there, the 228 iron soldiers.
They were reserved, you need out of Pennsylvania.
They were awesome.
They've been there for 14 months.
And they lost a lot of guys and they fought hard.
So it's not like this reserveist thing is is is a different class of soldier.
They're soldiers for real.
They're Marines for real.
And you may be going on deployment.
But what's cool about it is most companies, they will excuse you,
basically, when you go in the reserves.
They'll excuse you when you have time.
In fact, I think it's, I was never in the reserves.
But I think you're actually protected by the federal government from being fired
because you're serving in the reserves.
So I would definitely go and look into the reserves because otherwise,
that feeling that you have, I can only imagine it's never going to go away.
I don't know because I had that feeling that I wanted to join the military
when I was four years old and I did it, it seems like turned 18.
So I don't, you know, I, you know what I regret now is like,
I want to still be in, you know?
So especially now with the fighting picking up overseas,
it's, you know, that's the only thing that, that I feel is damn.
I want to go back.
But if you never did it at all, that's a grinding feeling.
So go, talk to recruiter, get the reserves and you know what else.
In certain areas, there's definitely volunteer, fired apartments.
And you can volunteer as a fireman.
And you can volunteer as a policeman.
They have certain, I don't know, I have no idea what state you're from.
Asking a question, but there's deputies, you can get deputized,
you can go through a, in San Diego, they definitely have reserve cops,
where you have to go to, you have to go to the, the police academy,
and you become a reserve cop.
So, and with all that, you want to talk about it with your wife,
talk about it with your wife.
Yeah.
You know, you say you don't know how to.
This is in the situation where you can be totally honest with it.
Hey, I always wanted to join the military.
I haven't done it.
I feel like it's something I really want to do.
Here's the options I want to go look at.
What do you think?
Now, you're marrying, you married to a girl and you're going to have kids.
It's your military service.
We'll be hard-grown, her, then, it is on you.
So, she better be strong, she better be tough.
And, you know, the military wives out there.
I mean, my wife, when I was gone and deployment after deployment,
it's, it's not easy.
I mean, luckily, she's tough.
And she raised kids without me.
And she took care of household without me.
And she went to the hospital to visit my wounded guys.
And she went to the funeral of my guys, but we're getting killed.
And she had to do that while I was gone on deployment.
And I was she was here for me once a week, maybe.
So, you're going to put your family through a lot of stress.
Now, you might stress your family a lot by always having regret
that they held you back.
Mm.
That's selfish, but that's true.
So, I would just go look into it, see what the options are.
Talk about it with your wife.
There's some really good benefits to it.
And also, the final point is sometimes when you're
reservist, you can decide that you want to go act of duty.
Maybe you love it.
Maybe you say, yeah, this was my calling.
Maybe your fourth day in boot camp, where you haven't slept,
you had your head shaved, your tired, your hungry, the food is horrible.
And you say, man, this is what I've always wanted to do with my life.
And if that happens, there's options where you can now go
active duty.
And you can see how your wife dealt with it while you're gone.
And if she dealt with it well, that's great.
Hey, let's make a career out of this.
And that's a good option to do.
So, I think your, this is, this is an easy day.
Easy, easy problem to take care of.
Mm.
No factor.
Just a second.
Next question.
Juggle, what's your take on sport?
Jiu Jitsu versus self defense, Jiu Jitsu.
And can sport transport, Jiu Jitsu can translate onto the street.
Most schools are geared towards sport.
Yeah, so for anyone that's listening that doesn't do Jiu Jitsu, both of you
without or out there that don't do Jiu Jitsu, that listening.
First of all, do Jiu Jitsu.
Second of all, so there's, there's,
Jiu Jitsu is rooted really in self defense.
And like anything that gets put into a,
a closed environment, it starts to breed and become different and mutate.
And so, Jiu Jitsu in a way, what they call, what they now call sport, Jiu Jitsu,
is Jiu Jitsu that has been in this competition environment in the Jiu Jitsu sport competition environment.
So, Jiu Jitsu is a sport as well as self defense.
It's a sport with points and you can win on points and they have championships and it's very competitive.
And it's, it's pretty entertaining to watch if you know and understand the game.
But since it's in this environment, this closed environment, it starts to mutate.
And that's what's happened.
So, for instance, there's maneuvers that you do in sport, Jiu Jitsu,
that are so intricate.
And there's so reliant on, for instance, reliant on the ghee,
the Jiu Jitsu uniform, which is a heavy fabric, a ghee.
And you can actually use parts of the ghee to choke people.
And you can use parts of the ghee to,
make a person off balance called a sweep and get on top.
You can literally take the lapel of their ghee and put it between their legs and wrap it around your leg and then grab the ghee there.
And then you just swing your hips and it's going to pull them off balance.
Now this is something you could literally never do in the street.
So that's what they're talking about when they're talking about sport versus self defense.
And they have this with other things.
I mean, there's sport shooting where they do certain.
And it's semi-realistic, just like Jiu Jitsu, semi-realistic when you go in a tournament,
it's somewhat simulate a street fight,
just like some shooting competitions somewhat simulate combat,
but they're not exact.
And so the question is, does the sport translate onto the street?
And my answer to that is, first of all, yes, it does.
Not every move certainly, and there's absolutely moves that you would do in Jiu Jitsu in a tournament that you would never do on the street.
Now luckily, anybody who's good enough to do those advanced moves in a tournament is good enough that in the street.
They're not going to need those moves.
You're not going to need to do a reverse, oh my plaza in the street.
You're not going to need to do donkey guard in the street.
You're not going to need to do barimbollo in the street.
You're just not going to need to do it.
If you're fighting someone that's good, well then guess what?
I guess you did need it, but you're not going to come up against a person in the street.
That's going to have a counter to your barimbollo attack.
And you don't have a guillain, so that's not going to work.
I mean, there are some no guivers that the bottom line is.
If you're doing Jiu Jitsu, you're definitely going to do very, very well in a street fight.
Now that being said, that being said, sometimes you know what you got to do.
You got to train Jiu Jitsu for the street.
You got to punch each other occasionally.
You got to say, hey, you know what?
Let's go live a little bit and we'll do some maybe you put gloves on, maybe you put MMA gloves on,
maybe just use open hands and you smack each other.
And you realize like, oh, when I'm on the bottom in the half guard,
where I feel super comfortable when I'm doing Jiu Jitsu, if I'm in a real fight,
I'm going to be getting headbutted or I'm going to be getting punched in the face.
And that's not good.
So what do I do to get out of this?
Um, you know, even in the guard can be horrible on the bottom.
And you don't want to be on the bottom anyways in the fight.
You don't want to, you don't, the bottom line is you don't want to grapple if you don't have to.
You don't want to be in a street fight in the first place.
The reason you're in a street fight is because you could not avoid it.
That's why you're in a street fight.
You could not avoid it.
You got attacked.
You got taken down to the ground.
Because even if someone swings at you, you can get still get away from you.
They haven't grabbed you yet. Run away.
Cool.
So train Jiu Jitsu with punches, also train boxing more time wrestling.
And also work on some real scenarios.
Work on the headlock.
And I've seen this where you get a guy that's really just coming to the game and jump straight.
You know, these young kids, they come to the game and they start the first thing they want to learn is the rubber guard.
The first thing they want to learn is the umo plot of the first thing they want to learn is the baron bolo.
That's like the first thing they want to learn.
And literally someone will put them in a headlock and they won't know what to do.
Because it's different.
Just like a baron bolo requires to neck technique.
The headlock escape requires some technique to get out of that.
So work on that, work on the bear hug, work on the arm grab and the wrist grab and the the the straight arm choke.
And big looping punches that you're going to see and I'll tell you sometimes Dean will teach yourself the fence class.
And when Dean teaches yourself the fence class every time he teaches one I learned something.
I'm like man, that's a good little technique he just showed how to get out of this, how to get out of that.
So bottom line, yes, you can it it sport Jiu Jitsu for the most part,
the most part, the trams lights into the street and if you're good enough at sports Jiu Jitsu that you're competing at a high level even purple belt nup.
You're not going to need to use any sports Jitsu moves in the street.
You're going to be destroying someone in a street fight.
Yeah.
If you end up in that situation.
Yeah, the it's a spec especially now just like how are you saying the Jiu Jitsu has evolved and kind of mutated more in in the gyms now.
Yeah, a Petri dish.
Jiu Jitsu is like in a Petri dish.
It's growing.
It just grows on its own.
It turns this weird fungus and it gets all different looking.
Yeah.
And it does look different.
It does look different than it did.
You know, even like I remember I remember Dean when I were talking about the other day we remember when the
Uma plot I came out.
You know, I think it was you know like 1996 we started seeing the Uma plot and we were oh man.
And it looks very fancy.
Yeah.
It looks very because a fancy looking move.
And now now because the internet because so many people are it's exploding how rapidly it's changing and mutating.
It's mutating faster now than it ever has.
Yeah.
And that's it's part of the beauty of it.
I think in, you know, in most ways.
The it's a spectrum.
No right.
If you went from one side, which is just the basic the original basic, you know, take down Mount
Side Mount card all this all the way to worm guard something that that we're very
stable for example, we're so smart.
You do it.
If you want to narrow it down, it's it's it's if it's something where the moves or whatever you're doing is dependent on the sport elements of it.
So it's dependent that you have a mat.
It's dependent that you have a key and a belt.
So if you do worm guard, that's highly dependent on the guy having a key with the lapel out.
And eventually someone's going to figure out how to do worm guard without it.
They'll figure out some variation for sure.
Yeah, yeah, so it's your keenens working on it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So it's like, you know, just to kind of put it into defined terms.
So self defense, I think now is you may find a gym that's only does sport where if you came in no experience and then, you know, three, four, five years later,
your sport you did to might not take you very far in the street.
It's it'll be rare, I think, but you could probably find the school like that.
I don't know where they are, but but I think just like how you're saying, when you make it to purple belt,
you're the basic jujitsu will win on the street.
And really, when if you go to a school like even the original Gracie Academy of Torrance, if you go there,
the self the self defense pursuit in jujitsu is more of it is it's tactic based like mentally.
It's not specific moves, it's distance management, it's where your mindset is.
In the guard your your pursue your goal in the guard is way different than in a tournament or something.
They won't they'll say don't even go for a submission's right there.
It's not your job to do submissions right here.
I was going to say that you said it's dependent on the ghee.
It's to sport you just depend on the ghee, dependent on the mat.
It's also dependent on the rules and it's dependent on an opponent that knows jujitsu.
Yeah, it's dependent on somebody that knows what they're doing because they're going to counter what you're doing and it'll make something work.
Absolutely right. Yeah.
So if you go back to the self defense, you're going to be learning basically how to protect yourself,
given what jujitsu is.
That's that's it. In sport, you're going to be learning how to score points,
how to control a certain guy with this specific uniform, how to utilize that uniform, how to utilize the mat.
That's another thing that's messed up like in the IBJJF, so the official rules of jujitsu.
There's some things that you're not allowed to do.
Right. And that's not good. They should allow these things.
Right. In regards to pursuing self defense.
Yes.
The sport, the sport is a sport. Really when it comes down to it.
Yeah, I guess you can put whatever rules you want.
Yeah.
But you shouldn't.
Yeah. If you, if you don't mind the deviation from self defense, if you don't mind that,
you can put whatever rules you want. But yeah, I would say you shouldn't.
If you care about the more rules you put in the sport of which it's the less effective it becomes.
Unfortunately. That's what they need to stop with the rules.
Yeah.
And it's the same thing with jujudo, it's the same thing with wrestling.
I mean wrestling in America, if they allowed submission holds in wrestling in America,
you know, America would be insane with fighters.
We've done pretty good. But can you imagine if every high school kid that wrestled new out of do all submissions?
To be nuts. That's a way it should be. I wish it was that way.
I wish the world was that way.
It would be a better place.
But what they did is what they did is with wrestling.
They took submission holds out because they considered it to be dangerous.
Yeah.
In judo as a clock is a classic example where they remove the double leg.
Like you can't do a straight double leg in a tournament anymore.
You have to set it up. It has to be off something else because
wrestlers will come in and dominating in judo tournaments just hit and double legs because they're, because they're awesome at them.
Right.
And it's the same thing now you see with with jujitsu and IBJJF.
There, you know, with the with the no heal hooks.
Yeah.
Even at a black belt level, you're not allowed to do heal hooks.
That completely changes some parts of the games.
And it doesn't change in where it would's going to make you lose in a street fight.
But it definitely puts a stop to the to the growth of the sport in terms of technique.
Yeah.
Yeah. Exactly. So exactly what you're saying now.
The sport, the rules and stuff. All that does is is narrow down the sport part of it.
And the more people who pursue it for sport, not just sport, but sport.
If pursuing judo to the first sport is part of your game is part of your goals or whatever.
And then now the sport has become this limited thing where you can't like this 20% of moves you can't do.
You're going to spend way less than practicing them.
You'd be way less effective at these moves that are a part of grappling a huge part of grappling ultimately.
So, so yeah, you're still going to have that huge overlap.
For sure. If you know mount, which is probably the first thing you would have your first judo class.
You're going to learn mount, which is theoretically the most dominant position you can have.
So you're going to learn mount, what to do when the guy flips you over, what to do in the guard, how to function.
You know, these things, that's what's going to get you by industry.
That's what's going to make you effective in an actual fight.
Yeah.
And then, you know, like anything, all these offsuits that grow, you know, they, you know, there's some overlap for sure.
But if you go in an tournament, that's a specific pursuit.
If you want to defend yourself, that's a specific pursuit.
Now, and as time goes on, they're going to start to draw out.
There's a lot of overlap right now.
Yes.
And in the future, there'll be less.
As the way that they're putting rules over the sport.
Yeah.
And just, and just sport in general.
And the sport mutating.
Yeah.
So, you know, the sport depending on the, depending on the fact that there's a mat.
Like if you try to do a bar and bow in the street with chaos on the road or something.
Or just the way that you make it, when you spin on the mat.
Yeah.
Which friction on the street would be definitely not what would make it hard.
Yes.
You can put even the grass would make it hard.
Yeah.
I haven't tried to bear them both on the street.
I can't get a fight.
Yeah.
But both are good.
I think it's fun.
You can't help but really like, because, because when you go in due to your, like,
Okay, this is basically a fight.
Yeah.
And we can train full speed and be safe.
It's a fight.
That's what makes it so fun because the, when you win, the payoff is so good on the inside.
And when you lose it's like, you still get that detriment that's still,
you still have that feeling, but at the end of the day, you know, you lived.
You're not enemies with the guy.
You're not injured.
Nothing like that.
So it makes it this, this win win the whole time, right?
And when you see a cool move like warm guard, when like, you're controlling one guy with your weird foot,
that face this way in one hand.
And the guy can't, like, even stand up.
Yeah.
That's so fun.
It's like, oh, I have a superpower on wielding, you know, in the mat.
So you can't help but pursue those fun.
Think bar and bow.
You get it's like your a break dancer doing some cool stuff.
Meanwhile, you're dominating the guy while you're doing.
You can't help but do that stuff.
So fun, you know.
Yeah.
So you can't, I mean, I don't think you can really hate on the sport.
No, I don't.
I don't hate on the sport.
Yeah.
You can't.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
I'm saying good, but some people do.
Yeah.
You know how, even just the question cut, not that the person who has this question,
thinks this, but it implies that there is a little bit of a climate of, oh, yeah.
I got to say this.
If you don't like the bar and bow, we'll learn to defend against it.
No, yeah.
You know what I mean?
You don't like rubber guard cool learn to defend against it.
That's my opinion because if you're working, then credit.
You know, you either affected or ineffective.
My brother, late, Babon said, oh.
I think the time is, yeah, it's 21 more or one more.
Okay.
Jocco, a lot of your advice applies to leading yourself, not just leading others.
Self-help, quote unquote, is a loaded word.
So let's say self-management.
What is the one change readers should make today to start improving themselves and their situation?
I don't really like those words.
Self-help or self-management or self-improvement.
I don't really like what those words have come to mean these days.
Because there's a lot of people out there that are constantly trying to improve themselves.
By looking for the one change, the one change, right?
The one change in their life that's going to make their dreams come true.
And even worse, on top of that, there's a lot of people out there.
A lot of self-help gurus and these hyperactive motivational speakers and these other self-appointed modern Zen yoga warriors that they're trying to sell the one thing.
They're trying to sell the nine steps or the enlightened path that's going to allow you to unlock all of your human potential and fulfill the dreams.
So you can live the life that you've always wanted to live.
Now, I'm no guru.
And I definitely don't claim to be.
I'm just a man.
But I will tell you this. It isn't one thing.
And it isn't ten things. And it isn't a hundred things.
It is an a quick path and there are no shortcuts.
Meditation won't get you there.
And neither will a miracle drug or an organic supplement or some superfood.
Getting better is an hack or a trick or a one change that you need to make.
Getting better is a campaign.
It's a campaign. It's a daily, a weekly, it's an hourly fight.
An insessing fight that doesn't stop against weakness and against temptation and against laziness.
It's a campaign of discipline.
The campaign of hard work and dedication.
It's waking up early and going to bed late and grinding out every second in between.
Every single day.
So you want to get better?
You want to self-improve.
Stop looking for a shortcut and go find your alarm clock and find your discipline.
And think your guts and your passion and your drive and find you will.
And then you will find your freedom.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight.
So all you troopers out there.
I don't know if I'm finding against evil or fighting against crime or fighting against fires or fighting to make things happen.
Fighting to get ahead and make something out of this little bit of time that we've got.
Thanks for joining us in the fight.
If you want to keep the conversation going, you can find us on the inner webs.
I'm at Jocco-Willink and Echo is at Echo Charles.
And if you want to support the podcast, Echo is going to tell you how.
Just a few ways.
Easy as way.
You click on there and then you do shopping.
Whether you buy a book or whatever or some batteries or some duct tape.
Also, there is a Jocco store where you can get shirts or coffee mugs or stickers.
You can support us by doing that if you like the shirts.
If not, then obviously not.
And if you want to take some supplements, I recommend the good ones, the ones that actually work.
And those are made by on it.
So if you go to onit.com slash Jocco, you can get 10% off all supplements.
You can also support the podcast by listening to it, by downloading it, by subscribing to it.
And by reviewing it, wherever you listen to it, get on there and put a review on there.
Tell people what you think.
You can also get a book called Extreme Ownership that was written by myself and my brother,
Lave Babin.
And you can get it on digital hardcover.
You can get it on audio, which is actually read by Lave Babin and myself.
And when you get done, support in the podcast and supporting the cause here,
go out there and do something to support yourself to make yourself better,
get out there into the world and get after it.
And so, until next time, this is Jocco, Neko.
Out.